Add docs for volume resizing and storage class overrides (#1651)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/proc-resizing-persistent-volumes.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-storage.adoc

[id='proc-resizing-persistent-volumes-{context}']
= Resizing persistent volumes

> This procedure described how to increase the size of persistent volumes used by existing {ProductName} cluster.

Reviewer: typo "describes"

This procedure can be applied to clusters using a single persistent volumes as well as to clusters using multiple persistent volumes in a JBOD storage.

NOTE: {ProductPlatformName} currently supports only increasing size of persistent volumes.
Shrinking of volumes is currently not possible.

.Prerequisites

* An {ProductPlatformName} cluster with support for volume resizing
* A running Cluster Operator

> * A storage class which supports volume expansion

Reviewer 2: Should we explain how the user might find this out?

Author: There is actually not so much docs about this in Kubernetes. I guess their modular documentation also got them to document stuff as blog posts, so this is probably the best information: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/07/12/resizing-persistent-volumes-using-kubernetes/

I can reference it there if you think it is worth it. But I think the topic is too complex to write this into our on docs.

WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I agree we should not try to document this ourselves. I think linking to the blog post is going to be helpful. It might be better suited to the "See also" section at the end of the module.

Author: Oki, done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-storage.adoc

[id='proc-resizing-persistent-volumes-{context}']
= Resizing persistent volumes

> This procedure describes how to increase the size of persistent volumes used by existing {ProductName} cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This procedure describes how to increase the size of persistent volumes used by an existing {ProductName} cluster.
```

This procedure can be applied to clusters using a single persistent volumes as well as to clusters using multiple persistent volumes in a JBOD storage.

> NOTE: {ProductPlatformName} currently supports only increasing size of persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: {ProductPlatformName} currently supports only increasing the size of persistent volumes.
```

> Shrinking of volumes is currently not possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decreasing the size of volumes is currently not possible.
```

.Prerequisites

> * An {ProductPlatformName} cluster with support for volume resizing

Reviewer 3: I thought the platforms we refer to supported resizing full stop? When don't they?

Author: The volume resizing depends on a lot of things:
* Version of Kubernetes / OpenShift
* The configuration of Kubernetes / OpenShift (It is supported in some versions on different support levels and can be enabled / disabled by the admins)
* Storage infrastructure which supports volume resizing

So it can fairly easily happen that it will not be supported. But at the same time it is quite hard to determine the support for us, so we cannot be more specific.

* A running Cluster Operator
* A storage class which supports volume expansion

> * A Kafka cluster using persistent volumes created using given storage class

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A Kafka cluster using persistent volumes created using a given storage class
```

> * A Kafka cluster using persistent volumes created using given storage class

Reviewer 3: Should we say more about 'given storage class'?

Author: This just refers to the storage class from the line above - i.e. a one which supports volume expansion. If there is some better wording, please suggest.

.Procedure

. Edit the `spec.kafka.storage` or `spec.zookeeper.storage` property in the `Kafka` resource.
Increase the volume size.
For example, change the size of the volume from `1000Gi` to `2000Gi`:
+
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 1000Gi
      class: my-storage-class
    # ...
  zookeeper:
    # ...
----
+
. Create or update the resource.
+
ifdef::Kubernetes[]
On {KubernetesName} this can be done using `kubectl apply`:
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
kubectl apply -f _your-file_
+
endif::Kubernetes[]
On {OpenShiftName} this can be done using `oc apply`:
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
oc apply -f _your-file_
+

> . The Cluster Operator will request the {ProductPlatformName} to increase the capacity of the persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: This isn't really a step, it's more the result of the previous step.

Author: @PaulRMellor I guess that depends on what what should the procedure describe. There is a process which is important to understand to not be surprised. But only the first step is done by an outside actor (i.e. by an user). So what is the right way to deal with it? Should we have the procedure with a single step and just include all the other steps into it?

Reviewer 3: Daniel's suggestion seems good.

> . Once the persistent volumes are resized, the pods using them need to be restarted in order to resize the file system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Once the persistent volumes are resized, restart the pods using them to resize the file system.
```

Author: This is the same as in the previous step. The restart is done automatically by the operator. So while this maybe should not be as separate step (see the question above), it should not be changed in this way since the user should not restart anything.

> This restart will be done automatically by the Cluster Operator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The restart is performed automatically by the Cluster Operator.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-storage.adoc

[id='proc-resizing-persistent-volumes-{context}']
= Resizing persistent volumes

You can provision increased storage capacity by increasing the size of the persistent volumes used by an existing {ProductName} cluster.
Resizing persistent volumes is supported in clusters that use either a single persistent volume or multiple persistent volumes in a JBOD storage configuration.

NOTE: You can increase but not decrease the size of persistent volumes. Decreasing the size of persistent volumes is not currently supported in {ProductPlatformName}.

> Decreasing the size of persistent volumes is currently not possible.

Reviewer 4: You can remove line 12 because it's covered in the first sentence.

Author: Done, thanks.

.Prerequisites

> * An {ProductPlatformName} cluster with support for volume resizing

Reviewer 4: Full stop here, please.

* The Cluster Operator is running.

> * A Kafka cluster using persistent volumes created using a storage class

Reviewer 4: Can we combine the bullets here?

* A Kafka cluster using persistent volumes created using a storage class that supports volume expansion.

** The storage class has to support volume expansion

.Procedure

> . In a `Kafka` resource, increase the size of the persistent volume allocated to the Kafka cluster, the Zookeeper cluster, or both.

Reviewer 4: Insert a blank line before the unordered list to prevent formatting issues.
